Systems Development Apprentice Assignment
General Instructions
These apprentice instructions provide the brief for this assignment and all relevant information to complete the exercise.

Health & Safety:
Apprentices have responsibilities for maintaining the safety of others as well as their own when in a location with others completing the same assessed event. Anyone behaving in an unsafe fashion will be stopped and a suitable warning given. A candidate should never be allowed to continue on an assignment if they have contravened these requirements.

Location of the Assignment
Any suitable environment as directed by the designated tutor. Submission in hard copy face-to-face or via submission to tutor email account as applicable.

Time Considerations
Apprentices should complete this assignment in the off-the-job delivery periods.

Apprentice Assignment
Specific Instructions
Read the following carefully and make sure all instructions are understood. If any clarifications are required, check with the designated Tutor.
Ensure all pertinent details are noted in the required fields of the Assignment Cover Sheet.
Apprentices assisting other apprentices will be disqualified from the assessment event.
Due assignment submissions must be returned to the Tutor by the assigned completion date and time.
All work must be the apprentice's own individual work.
Assignment submissions must be in MS Word format and referenced adequately.
Systems Development Apprentice Assignment Brief
Required Assignment Tasks (x4 Tasks, 100% in total—50% to pass module)
Scenario:
You work as a software development manager for a company called Fresh Insight Technology, which has been approached by a local college seeking a new canteen system to be developed. In recent years, the college canteen has relied on traditional methods for ordering and payment — a physical paper menu and cash payments. Given the advancements in technology and a need for a more efficient system, management has decided to implement a remote ordering and digital menu system.

Your task is to develop a system that will allow students and staff to view the menu, place orders, and make payments digitally from their own devices. The goal is to enhance the canteen experience by reducing wait times, improving order accuracy, and modernizing the payment process.

The project will involve understanding and establishing the customer's requirements, following the system development lifecycle to develop the solution, setting up a procedure for system maintenance, understanding and implementing version control procedures, evaluating different methods of system changeover, and producing both logical and physical design specifications.

You have been tasked with initiating and overseeing the development of the new software, including all client liaisons. The client has outlined that all work must be completed within six months.

Task 1 – Establishing Customer Requirements (15 Marks)
A) Prepare a strategy for establishing the business requirements directly from the client for the system. Write a brief report outlining your proposed strategy, methods, and approach.
B) Make contact with the client (your tutor) and using your proposed strategy collect all the relevant information needed for developing the new system. Using the outcomes from your investigation, produce a customer requirements report detailing the client’s requirements, any constraints identified, and suggestions that might improve the system. Consider how the client will interpret and sign off on the requirements before progressing.

Task 2 – System Design Documentation (35 Marks)
Using the information gathered for Task 1B, produce robust and detailed design documentation which should include at least the following categories of documents:

Requirement Specification
Logical Designs
Physical Designs
Task 3 – Understanding the System Development Life Cycle and Processes (30 Marks)
Using an appropriate software development methodology, complete the following:
A) Create comprehensive planning documentation for the development of the system. Your documentation should clearly detail each stage of the development life cycle with explicit consideration for quality assurance, version control plans, timeframes, and contingencies.
B) Prepare a supplementary report that outlines the deliverables expected at each stage of the development life cycle with clear consideration for internal deliverables and client deliverables.
C) Provide a detailed explanation and justification for the chosen development methodology which outlines how it is aligned with the project goals and ensures efficiency and effectiveness.

Task 4 – Planning for System Changeover and Maintenance (20 Marks)
A) Nominate a method for system changeover (e.g., parallel, phased, direct, or pilot) and provide detailed rationale for your choice aligned with the project needs. Develop a procedural document detailing the step-by-step process for the system's changeover which outlines critical activities, checkpoints, stakeholders, and staff training to ensure a smooth changeover.
B) Devise a strategy for system maintenance, considering various maintenance types (e.g., corrective, adaptive, perfective, preventive). Develop a procedural document detailing the step-by-step routine for sustaining the system over time, encompassing routine checks, updates, and improvements, while also accounting for contingency plans addressing potential challenges and unforeseen events.

Guidance Grading Between the Allocated Marks/Bands
Comprehensive Apprentice Response
The upper end of the mark allocation:
The response is comprehensive, demonstrating a deep understanding of the topic information. Writing/presentation of information is very clear and cohesive.

Adequate Apprentice Response
Upper range of mark allocation:
Addresses all of the topics/questions but is missing some detail. Demonstrates a good understanding of the topic. Information presented is accurate. Writing/presentation of information is clear and cohesive.

Acceptable Apprentice Response
Lower/Mid-range mark allocation:
Response is not comprehensive – it only addresses parts of the topic/question. Demonstrates a reasonable understanding of the topic area(s) answered. Information presented is accurate but limited.

Does Not Meet the Passing Standard
Low allocation of marks:
Response is not comprehensive – only addresses parts of the topic/question. Demonstrates a basic understanding of the topic areas answered. Information presented is accurate but limited. Writing may be unorganized and unclear.